# Kindle Highlights to SQLite Converter

This is my "hello world" in Go.

This Go program is designed to convert Kindle highlights and notes from a text file (typically "My Clippings.txt" generated by a Kindle device) into a SQLite database. It also provides options to filter and display the highlights and notes based on certain criteria.

>Note: The program only accept english and brazilian portuguese files due to variations in the date format.

## Table of Contents
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Options](#options)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Getting Started

Before using the program, make sure you have Go installed on your system. You can download and install Go from the official website: [https://golang.org/dl/](https://golang.org/dl/)

Once you have Go installed, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/brunofpessoa/kindle-highlights.git
   ```

2. Change to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd kindle-highlights
   ```

3. Build the program:
   ```bash
   go build
   ```

4. Run the program:
   ```bash
   ./kindle-highlights [options]
   ```

## Usage

The program takes a text file containing Kindle highlights and notes as input and stores them in a SQLite database. You can then query and display the highlights and notes using various filtering options.

## Options

- `-db`: Specifies the name of the SQLite database file to be created or used. (Default: database.sqlite3)

- `-file`: Specifies the path to the text file containing Kindle highlights and notes. (Default: My Clippings.txt)

- `-max`: Specifies the maximum length (in characters) of a highlight or note. Highlights exceeding this length will be excluded. (Default: 500)

- `-min`: Specifies the minimum length (in characters) of a highlight or note. Highlights shorter than this length will be excluded. (Default: 10)

- `-book`: Allows you to filter highlights and notes by specifying the book's name. You can enter either the full name or a partial name of the book.

- `-all`: If this flag is set, all highlights and notes will be displayed. You can combine it with other flags

- `-no-duplicate`: Restricts insertion of highlights that looks like the same, keeping the last one created. (Default: true)

## Examples

1. **Convert Kindle Highlights to SQLite Database**:

   To convert the highlights from "My Clippings.txt" into an SQLite database named "my_highlights.db", use the following command:

   ```bash
   ./kindle-highlights -db="my_highlights.db" -file="My Clippings.txt"
   ```

2. **Display All Highlights and Notes**:

   To display all highlights and notes without any filtering, use the following command:

   ```bash
   ./kindle-highlights -db="my_highlights.db" -all
   ```

3. **Display Highlights and Notes for a Specific Book**:

   To display highlights and notes for a specific book (e.g., "Os irmãos Karamzov") with a minimum length of 20 and max of 200 characters, use the following command:

   ```bash
   ./kindle-highlights -db="my_highlights.db" -book="Os irmãos Karamázov" -min=20 -max=200
   ```


4. **Display All Highlights and Notes from a Specific Book**:

   To display all highlights and notes without any filtering, use the following command:

   ```bash
   ./kindle-highlights -db="my_highlights.db" -book="Os irmãos Karamázov" -all
   ```

Note: You can combine options as needed to filter and display highlights and notes based on your preferences.
